All right, everyone, welcome to the first video where we actually start to create our project and
start coding.
Now before we get started, I want to say a few things about the code and about the bugs in general.
Now I've built this project before I started recording this course, and I spent quite a lot of time
tinkering around and playing around with the code.
So I'm hoping that there's not too many bugs in the code in the final project.
Now, of course, this is software development and no code is 100 percent perfect.
It is possible that some bugs have managed to sneak in.
So I do kindly ask you to be understanding if you do find some issues, some bugs, if you do find them
and you find a solution.
Please post it in the comments.
I will try to update my code and it will be useful for other students to see that there is a solution
to the problem that they might find.
All right.
With that said, let's go ahead and start to create our project.
So I'm here in Android Studio now.
Make sure you have an up to date version that includes compose because we will use Compose for our project
creation.
OK, so go ahead and create a new project, select compose activity and click next.
Give your code some your project, some name.
It doesn't really matter what the name is.
I'm going to say Instagram Clone.
OK, Clone is kind of a pretentious word because it's not really a clone.
It doesn't have nearly as many features, but just going to keep it simple and call it an Instagram
clone, even though we're implementing just a fraction of the features that Instagram has.
Now I'm going to click Finish.
And so we have our project that we can start working on now.
First of all, what I would like to do is I would like to increase the font size to make it easier for
you to see, hopefully font size.
And we're going to do that here.
16 apply.
OK, so hopefully that will look better and it's easy for you to kind of follow along.
So in this first video, we're just going to add the libraries that we're going to need for our project
in the previous lecture, you have a you have some code that you can copy and paste or you can simply
type it out if you choose to.
I'm going to have here, I'm going to open up with double shift, which is search everywhere and I'm
going to open build dot Gradle.
The project file, so not the app file the general project file at first.
And here I'm just going to paste the paste the code for Google Services and Health.
Remember, we're going to be using helped as well.
Now let's open the other build dot Gradle file the app level file and down below where we have our dependencies,
we're going to add a few dependencies here.
OK, so let's just copy and paste the libraries that we're going to need, and we're going to go through
them in a second to kind of point out what they are.
But before that, right at the top, we will need some plugins as well.
So copy and paste those in as well.
We have Google Services, CPT and our Diger Health plugin.
Let's go ahead and sync now.
And it should take some time to kind of download all the libraries.
Hopefully for me, they are already downloaded and the this goes smoothly.
No issues if you have any problems and you're not able to sync.
Make sure you haven't made any mistakes typing here.
OK.
All right.
So let's go through them.
They're not too many, actually.
So let's see what our libraries are.
So obviously we will need the navigation component.
We will use navigation to kind of move through our app.
We're going to use Firebase.
So as we've seen, these are the basics.
We have authentication, firestorm and fire based storage.
Obviously, we need those we will have built for dependency injection.
All right.
We're going to need hilt navigation.
OK, there's the library that specifically designed to work with our navigation, and we're going to
have the compiler as well.
Capability Kotlin compiler.
We're going to use coils for image loading.
OK.
Even though I found some small issues in coil that I would like change, hopefully at some point these
will be implemented.
And this will work fine.
But it is looking like Hoyle is the recommended library by Android.
So we will use that and then we will have code routines as well.
We will use code routines in one specific point in our application, so they are very, very useful.
All right.
So these are the libraries.
Hopefully your code has syncs nicely and there's no problems there and here what we have Google services
and help, right?
So we have everything we need.
Now, keep in mind, navigation is still in beta.
OK, so we do have to be careful about that when you are taking this course.
These libraries might evolve, so you have might have later versions.
So if you do find some bugs, some issues, then go ahead and update to the latest version.
But I'm going to use these versions that you find here, and I do recommend that you keep these versions
here because if there are any changes that kind of break previous versions, then this code might not
work 100 percent.
So it's better to keep everyone on the same version while we build a project and then later on update
if you need to, if you want to take this application further.
All right, so that's it for this video.
Hopefully, everything works fine up to this point.
In the next few minutes, we're going to start to actually implement our code.
So I will see you there.